get-your-next-raise/notes.md, before:

---
layout: default
metatags: noindex
sitemap: false
title: Get Your Next Raise
tagline: Lesson notes and resources
excerpt: Lesson notes and resources to accompany Get Your Next Raise
context: sales-page
last_modified_at: 2018-07-25
lesson_number: 1
extra_js:
  - gynr_access.js
---
## Jump to lesson...

 * [Lesson 1: Start now](#start)
 * [Lesson 2: Estimate your market value](#estimate)
 * [Lesson 3: Set your goal](#goal) 
 * [Lesson 4: Build your case](#build)
 * [Lesson 5: Put your case in writing](#write)
 * [Lesson 6: Ask for your raise](#ask)
 * [Lesson 7: Plan your next steps](#plan)
  
## <a name="start" class="below-nav">Lesson 1: Start now

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

The most important thing you can do to get your next raise is _start now_. If you're like most people, you're here because you're stuck. Maybe you feel you’re underpaid or undervalued. You know you do good work, but your salary hasn't kept up with your contributions. So here you are. Stuck.

This lesson—this entire _course_—will walk you through a proven process to get your next raise and get un-stuck.

We'll end with a look at the email template that you will use to build and document your case as we go.

### Action items

*   Download the [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*   Review the email template

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*  [Read more about how to ask for a raise in writing](/salary-increase-letter-sample/)

## <a name="estimate" class="below-nav">Lesson 2: Estimate your market value

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You will estimate your market value using a simple three-step process. Before you ask for your raise, it's important to have a specific goal in mind. To set that goal—your target salary—you need to know your market value.

Your market value will give you a baseline that you can adjust to set your target salary in the next lesson.

### Action items

*   Download the [_Get Your Next Raise_ Market Value Estimation worksheet](/download/GetYourNextRaise_MarketValueEstimationWorksheet.xlsx)
*   Use the worksheet to estimate your market value
*   Record your market value estimate in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ Market Value Estimation worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_MarketValueEstimationWorksheet.xlsx)
*   [How to Estimate Your Market Value](/book/value/)—Read the chapter from _Fearless Salary Negotiation_

### References

*   [PayScale.com](https://payscale.com)
*   [Salary.com](http://salary.com)
*   [Glassdoor.com](https://glassdoor.com)
*   [paysa.com](https://paysa.com)

## <a name="goal" class="below-nav">Lesson 3: Set your goal

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You will set your target salary, which is your goal for your next raise. You will begin with your market value estimate, and adjust it for your specific situation.

### Action items

*   Set your target salary
*   Record your target salary in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)

### References

*   [PayScale.com](https://payscale.com)
*   [Salary.com](https://salary.com)
*   [Glassdoor.com](https://glassdoor.com)
*   [paysa.com](https://paysa.com)

## <a name="build" class="below-nav">Lesson 4: Build your case

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You have set a specific goal, which is your target salary. Now it’s time to build your case to demonstrate that you have earned your target salary.

You’ll record all of your accomplishments—things you’ve done to add value to the company—and all of your accolades—recognition from others that you’re doing good work.

Once you’ve documented your accomplishments and accolades, you will have everything you need to build your case for your next raise.

### Action items

*   Document your accomplishments in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet
*   Document your accolades in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*   [Read more about how to ask for a raise in writing](/salary-increase-letter-sample/)

## <a name="write" class="below-nav">Lesson 5: Put your case in writing

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You have documented your target salary and all of your accomplishments and accolades, you’re ready to put your case in writing. This will help you see how strong your case is and will also help you prepare to ask your manager for your next raise.

### Action items

*   Put your case in writing using the _Get Your Next Raise_ email template
*   Review it, but don't send it!

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*   [Read more about how to ask for a raise in writing](/salary-increase-letter-sample/)

## <a name="ask" class="below-nav">Lesson 6: Ask for your raise

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You will schedule a meeting to ask your manager for your raise to your target salary, using some of your accomplishments and accolades to make your case. After you ask for your raise in person, you will follow up by sending the email you drafted earlier.

### Action items

*   Meet with your manager
*   Email your manager

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)

## <a name="plan" class="below-nav">Lesson 7: Plan your next steps

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

Once you have asked for your raise, there are three likely outcomes. You will plan for each of the three likely outcomes so you know exactly what your next steps will be.

### Action items

*   **Not yet**—Collaborate with your manager on a plan with a timeline
*   **No**—Consider all of your options
*   **Yes**—Plan for your next raise
*   Start now

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)

Commit message:

also updated GYNR notes page

get-your-next-raise/notes.md, after:

---
layout: posts
title: Course notes for Get Your Next Raise
subhead: Notes, action items, materials, and resources for each lesson
description: Lesson notes and resources to accompany Get Your Next Raise
last_modified_at: 2018-07-25
---
## Jump to lesson...

 * [Lesson 1: Start now](#start)
 * [Lesson 2: Estimate your market value](#estimate)
 * [Lesson 3: Set your goal](#goal) 
 * [Lesson 4: Build your case](#build)
 * [Lesson 5: Put your case in writing](#write)
 * [Lesson 6: Ask for your raise](#ask)
 * [Lesson 7: Plan your next steps](#plan)
  
## <a name="start" class="below-nav">Lesson 1: Start now

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

The most important thing you can do to get your next raise is _start now_. If you're like most people, you're here because you're stuck. Maybe you feel you’re underpaid or undervalued. You know you do good work, but your salary hasn't kept up with your contributions. So here you are. Stuck.

This lesson—this entire _course_—will walk you through a proven process to get your next raise and get un-stuck.

We'll end with a look at the email template that you will use to build and document your case as we go.

### Action items

*   Download the [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*   Review the email template

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*  [Read more about how to ask for a raise in writing](/salary-increase-letter-sample/)

## <a name="estimate" class="below-nav">Lesson 2: Estimate your market value

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You will estimate your market value using a simple three-step process. Before you ask for your raise, it's important to have a specific goal in mind. To set that goal—your target salary—you need to know your market value.

Your market value will give you a baseline that you can adjust to set your target salary in the next lesson.

### Action items

*   Download the [_Get Your Next Raise_ Market Value Estimation worksheet](/download/GetYourNextRaise_MarketValueEstimationWorksheet.xlsx)
*   Use the worksheet to estimate your market value
*   Record your market value estimate in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ Market Value Estimation worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_MarketValueEstimationWorksheet.xlsx)
*   [How to Estimate Your Market Value](/book/value/)—Read the chapter from _Fearless Salary Negotiation_

### References

*   [PayScale.com](https://payscale.com)
*   [Salary.com](http://salary.com)
*   [Glassdoor.com](https://glassdoor.com)
*   [paysa.com](https://paysa.com)

## <a name="goal" class="below-nav">Lesson 3: Set your goal

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You will set your target salary, which is your goal for your next raise. You will begin with your market value estimate, and adjust it for your specific situation.

### Action items

*   Set your target salary
*   Record your target salary in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)

### References

*   [PayScale.com](https://payscale.com)
*   [Salary.com](https://salary.com)
*   [Glassdoor.com](https://glassdoor.com)
*   [paysa.com](https://paysa.com)

## <a name="build" class="below-nav">Lesson 4: Build your case

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You have set a specific goal, which is your target salary. Now it’s time to build your case to demonstrate that you have earned your target salary.

You’ll record all of your accomplishments—things you’ve done to add value to the company—and all of your accolades—recognition from others that you’re doing good work.

Once you’ve documented your accomplishments and accolades, you will have everything you need to build your case for your next raise.

### Action items

*   Document your accomplishments in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet
*   Document your accolades in the _Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*   [Read more about how to ask for a raise in writing](/salary-increase-letter-sample/)

## <a name="write" class="below-nav">Lesson 5: Put your case in writing

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You have documented your target salary and all of your accomplishments and accolades, you’re ready to put your case in writing. This will help you see how strong your case is and will also help you prepare to ask your manager for your next raise.

### Action items

*   Put your case in writing using the _Get Your Next Raise_ email template
*   Review it, but don't send it!

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
*   [Read more about how to ask for a raise in writing](/salary-increase-letter-sample/)

## <a name="ask" class="below-nav">Lesson 6: Ask for your raise

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

You will schedule a meeting to ask your manager for your raise to your target salary, using some of your accomplishments and accolades to make your case. After you ask for your raise in person, you will follow up by sending the email you drafted earlier.

### Action items

*   Meet with your manager
*   Email your manager

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)

## <a name="plan" class="below-nav">Lesson 7: Plan your next steps

### What you'll accomplish in this lesson

Once you have asked for your raise, there are three likely outcomes. You will plan for each of the three likely outcomes so you know exactly what your next steps will be.

### Action items

*   **Not yet**—Collaborate with your manager on a plan with a timeline
*   **No**—Consider all of your options
*   **Yes**—Plan for your next raise
*   Start now

### Materials

*   [_Get Your Next Raise_ worksheet (download)](/download/GetYourNextRaise_Worksheet.docx)
